there's um an 18 year old uh black woman
in madison wisconsin who was uh set on
fire
by white men she was stopped at a
stoplight
and um she says that uh as she was
waiting
in that at that stoplight in madison
wisconsin
they sprayed her with lighter fluid and
then lit her on fire
in preparation for recording this video
i
did precisely what none of the
journalists in the mainstream media did
and that is that i read the full police
report
from cover to cover so i can say to you
with some confidence this is about
fraud this is about politically
motivated deception on a massive
scale as i'm asking you to be very
skeptical
about what mainstream news broadcasters
have told you about this case
that unfolded at the height of public
fascination with the black lives matter
movement a few months ago
it is inevitable that you will be
skeptical of what i have to say
also and so in opening this video
just to peak your skepticism i would
like to point out
that this is videotape evidence of
precisely
what happened when this young woman
drove through the intersection
where she said these extraordinary
events unfolded this is the log
moment by moment of when her car
passed through each of the intersections
downtown
including the one where she described
these extraordinary events happening
and this is the text message she sent
to her boyfriend approximately three
minutes after those events unfolded
when her hair and face would have still
been smoldering after she had patted
out the flames now to an abc news
exclusive
the 18 year old vibration woman who says
she was attacked by four men while
white men while she was driving althea
bernstein says she was set on fire and
alex perez joins us with latest on the
investigation good morning alex
hey good morning george the 18 year old
says she's studying to be a paramedic
and some of those
skills kicked in at the horrifying
moment
she was attacked this morning police in
madison wisconsin are searching for the
suspects
responsible for this a young biracial
woman
suffering second and third degree burns
after she says
she was set on fire she said i was
listening to some music at a stoplight
and then all of a sudden i heard someone
well yell the n-word really loud
i turned my head to look and somebody's
throwing lighter fluid on me
and then they threw a lighter at me and
my neck caught on fire and i tried to
put it out
i haven't really slept and um i don't
really have an appetite so it's just
i don't want anyone to ever feel like
this
i don't even like remember anything
but your brain still has that fight or
fight response that takes care of you so
i made it home
i called my mom i went to the i drove
myself to the er
now an active and ongoing investigation
madison's mayor saying
while we are still learning more about
the details current information suggests
this may have been a premeditated crime
targeted toward people of color
which makes the incident even more
disturbing
it's definitely a learning opportunity
and i'm very very hopeful that these men
sort of see all the responses and that
they know that they hurt me
and that this is something that's going
to affect me for a while
she was not terribly convincing on
camera
and looking at the police report it
seems that she was not
terribly convincing off-camera either
quote althea stated that she didn't
think nick would do anything violent to
her
althea then stated quote i don't
remember
anything close quote that would look
great in court
if this were to ever go to court she
stated
that the fact that there isn't any video
of the attack
happening really concerns her and
confuses her
and i'll bet the original audio
recording of this discussion with the
police
she would sound very confused indeed and
would further discredit herself in court
i asked her if when she said she didn't
remember anything
she meant she didn't remember anything
from that night or she didn't remember
livingston doing anything violent or
harmful to her
althea then stated quote i don't
remember the attack
close quote she stated that she
remembered it
really well a couple days after it
occurred
but that is slowly fading from her
memory
since then althea went on to say she
feels as though her brain is erasing
or cutting out the memories of the
attack as time goes by
yes um quite apart from the level of
scrutiny required for a
police investigation or for a conviction
in court
just imagine if journalists did basic
fact checking and asked questions of
this kind
so uh you know we're doing this story
live
and you just looked it up so i have not
had a chance to read the details
but presumably if she went to the
hospital and she's got burns on her neck
and face
that's verifiable uh and so if it turns
out not to be the case obviously we'll
come back and tell you that we continue
reading directly from the police report
quote i told althea that one of the
things we had questions about
was a number of steps that she had taken
as she left livingston's apartment
i explained that based both on her and
livingston's statement
she had left his apartment and walked to
her car on her own
i stated that there was a large number
of steps and a longer amount of time
that didn't seem consistent with her
just leaving his apartment and going to
her car
i i pause how do the police know this
because all of these people are carrying
cell phones
and are constantly messaging one another
so you know their precise location and
what they're doing
almost at every moment of the day both
she
and livingston believe this car was
parked right outside so there was one
little gap in the schedule that
couldn't be accounted for whereas if you
look at how many
moments passed when she drove through
each
intersection without ever stopping at a
red light without ever
having her window down and listening to
music without any of the most
basic assumptions of her fabricated
story
having been true there wasn't any time
there
when she could have been attacked or
could have received the burns but there
was
there was some time when she was with
her boyfriend when
something could have happened i asked if
she remembered anything else from that
night
that might have happened in between
leaving livingston's apartment
and getting to her car althea answered
quote
i don't even know close quote again that
would that would stand up really well in
court
and if you were just a journalist
covering this case and you just
read this if you were a journalist you
didn't even conduct the interview
you just read this summary of the police
interview
how would you report the story i want to
share one more detail that she
shared with authorities she said two of
them were wearing all black
and the other two donned floral shirts
and jeans
and uh keep in mind that lately uh there
have been far-right
uh protesters agitators um
essentially white supremacists who have
been showing up at black lives matter
uh protests uh to cause problems
uh in in some cases even attack some of
the protesters
althea asked if we had been able to find
any cameras
around livingston's apartments like oh
so the police are confronting you with
this
like hey we have a different explanation
for these events
concerning what happened when you were
at or around your boyfriend's room and
she's like oh
well do you do you have videotape
evidence of that
quote i stated that we had not althea
then stated
i'm 100 confident of what happened oh
gee
just uh just a few seconds ago you said
you were confused and you didn't
remember
and it felt like it was erased your
memory and then you asked oh do you have
videotapes okay then i'm 100 confident
of what happened
yeah you have discredited yourself and
this is not the only evidence in this
police report i could make an hour-long
video
trust me the problem here is not the
police
the problem here is the politically
motivated press
and the way this is made into propaganda
althea went on to say that she very
firmly believes
that what she told us in the days
immediately after the attack is what
happened to her
althea added quote i just don't
understand
why there's no evidence i just don't
understand what the videotape evidence
of what actually
happened at that intersection isn't the
same
as my lie
most of the police report is unredacted
which is to say uncensored but there are
some
interesting erasures like this one
anything to do with her health anything
to do with the
psychiatric medications she may be
taking anything to do
with uh what the burns
actually were caused by whether the
burns interface were caused by
flame or by abrasion or by a chemical
reaction that
that has been omitted and
naturally people are asking
questions so although the physical
examination of the
human being involved in the story has
been kept from public view
the examination of the car has not been
and yes as you can imagine there
is telling physical evidence including
chemical testing forensic laboratories
so on and so forth
that once again discredits her
ridiculous
difficult to believe story these
are not the only demonstrable lies
that you can find in the report and
these other lies although less salacious
speak to her character she
insists again and again that when she
arrived at the hospital she was wearing
a
blue zip up hooded
sweatshirt her father seemed very
confused by this
the other people asked about it don't
remember her owning
a blue hooded sweatshirt and in fact at
one point her father goes to try to get
the sweatshirt he's like oh was do you
mean this one
and the rest of it she makes up a
further lie that this was a sweatshirt
that she'd bought in london england and
that her father didn't know about like
her father seems to know most of her
wardrobe
she's not a fancy dresser as you can see
from this photograph
but guess what this photograph is from
the
security camera showing the clothing
that she was wearing
when she arrived at the hospital she was
not
wearing a blue hooded sweatshirt now
does this matter well it tells you
what kind of person she is what kind of
stories
she tells she evidently felt it would
make her story seem more compelling
or more believable if there were this
sweatshirt that was soaked with lighter
fluid that stink of lighter fluid that
provided more tangible evidence that her
story
was true now actually if your sweatshirt
were
soaked with lighter fluid and a live
match
or a lit lighter was thrown in your car
your whole sweatshirt would have burst
into flames so it actually makes your
story
less believable but she thinks this
makes her story
more believable and she makes up the
further lie that because
this shirt stanks so much of the
accelerant of this flammable material
that the hospital staff
took it away from her and threw it in
the garbage
but look this surveillance footage
camera
doesn't lie many people get into the
habit
of lying to their parents and getting
away with it at an early age
and you know what you may be accustomed
to lying to authority figures
at your school who fundamentally just
don't care if you go into the
principal's office and claim that you
were sick
when you weren't really sick it's very
likely the authority figures you dealt
with in school
fundamentally don't care about what's
true or false they've just got to get on
with their schedule and deal with 40
other kids
who have 40 other excuses for why their
homework is late or why they couldn't
write the exam
or whatever it is this seems to me
somebody who has fundamentally
become very comfortable with that
childish habit of mind
of making up stories and presuming she
can get away with it
thank you to the viewers who have sent
it to me we will look into it a little
deeper
and give you updates as we get them it's
easy
to preach freedom of speech and it's
much more difficult to deal
with problems of accountability you
might or might not have noticed
the extent to which the reporters at tyt
the young turks coached their words
stating that they would follow up on
this later after they'd investigated it
more deeply because they weren't really
entirely confident that this story
checked out yeah go ahead search their
youtube channel search
all their websites find any evidence of
our attraction
find me a video where they deliver the
same
hard-hitting message that i'm delivering
to you here and now
that this was fraud that this was a hoax
that this was massively influential
political propaganda
that reached an audience of millions of
people
and that frankly radicalized people at a
time when there were
really important political questions to
be asking simultaneous
with this surreal made-up imaginary
neo-nazi attack
on the streets of wisconsin the people
of wisconsin decided to demonstrate
how woke they are by tearing down a
statue of a white man
without pausing to look up in wikipedia
who that white man was or why there was
a statue to him
and guess what he was anti-slavery
he died fighting to liberate the slaves
he was somebody who was on the right
side of history but nevertheless black
lives matter protesters
tore down his statue just because
he was white in the year 2020 mistakes
were made
and there were important lessons to be
learned
from those mistakes the young turks are
going to only
prevent you from learning them abc
news tragically is going to
prevent you from learning them because
none of these mainstream news sources
did that most simple essential thing
that i did
none of them read the police report once
in a while i get an email
asking me what this logo is
what do those four letters stand for
active research and informed
opinion that's the motto hit me up
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice
yes